Today, we live in a world that is constantly changing evolving each day. As a result of these changes people to know the reasoning of why certain events occur. This sparked a new paradigm shift is what we now know as Data Science. There are many paradigms shift that have happened previously including the internet and computer science. This new paradigm shift in Data science led to the creation of other applications of data science. One of these applications is Agent-Based Modeling. Using satellite data, CDR data and survey data we are now able to model a complex social system.

It is not unusual to use satellites to map countries or predict the population of countries. The reason this is normal today is we have the technology to do perform these tasks. This is a significant gain because we were not able to use satellites to this extent in the past. This is helpful in analyzing and predicting human development processes because we can see satellite images that show where people where five years ago as opposed to where people are in the present. Satellite data can be used for other useful tasks not just mapping human movement. If we can identify urban areas using satellite data and computer mapping through an agent-based model we will be able to locate areas with poverty. This allows leaders of many countries to be able to allocate their resources to these areas of need.

CDR data is another method that can be helpful to help identify human development processes. CDR data is easy to collect and it shows what location people have been making phone calls. This is beneficial because if the location that people make phone calls move then we know that there is movement. Thus, we will be able to analyze the human development process easier. One problem with using CDR data is that not everyone owns a cell phone. This is a challenge because there could be inaccurate predictions. There could be inaccurate predictions because the data would only come from a select group of people creating a bias.

Survey data is helpful because we can this data to accurately predict human movements based on the information giving by the residents of that area. While it is true, we could collect data through surveys, we never had a way to accurate present this data. Through an agent-based model we can combine the survey data with other statistics to create a model that accurately models a complex system.

The hope for data science to be used to elevate our understanding of individual and community scale behavior will grow soon. It will grow because as societies get older, they want to improve community. One of the ways people can improve communities is by understanding how their communities think, which is where data science would come in to help people understand behavior.

The use of data science can be a harm if it is carried out unethically. This means if people want to use data science methods to understand the community behavior, they must gather data. The problem with this is that the data can gathered unethically. If the data is gathered unethically it will create a level of distrust in the community and the data science methods will not aid the community.

One of the major obstacles is collecting the data. It is hard to collect data in certain places because of ethics standard. If data scientists were able to collect data freely it would make agent-based model easier to make. One other obstacle is creating an accurate model. An agent-based model can predict a complex-social system, but it must be accurate. If the model is not accurate the community will not benefit from the agent-based model.

Data science is a new paradigm that will be continued to be used in the future. People want to know why and how certain events happen so it is important that someone can explain to them. Agent-based modeling will help answer people’s question. It will be able to tell people the areas that need help economically in a community and it will also be able to help people during a crisis. If the model can predict movement it can help a community who is dealing with a crisis like hurricanes, tornadoes, diseases, and other disasters. So, the possibilities to help the community with agent-based modeling are endless. The only challenge that remains is how accurate can we get the model so that the results better the community.


